[stomping]
[whoosh]
[intro song playing]
♪ When you're hungry, Gau, Gau ♪
♪ It's sunny today, Gau, Gau ♪
♪ When it rains, Gau, Gau ♪
♪ The rainbow is so pretty, Gau, Gau ♪
♪ You and I go, Gau, Gau ♪
♪ It's a peaceful world, Gau, Gau! ♪
TEACHER R3 EXPLODES
[snickers]
I have an idea who the culprit is.
[snickers, startles]
[Mr. R3] Okay, everyone, take your seats.
We're going to have a test.
[students] Huh? You didn't warn us!
No, I didn't.
Because it's a pop quiz.
[students] What?
-A pop quiz? That's not fair!
-[students] Yeah, no fair!
You should always be prepared.
Like they say, preparation is every...
-every... every... every...
-Huh?
...everyth--
[speaking gibberish] Ahh!
[students] Ahh!
[Takashi] Yay! There's no test!
[Grandpa] Okay, he's patched up.
It's only temporary,
but it will have to do.
What's this?
I installed Mr. R3's head
onto a refrigerator.
I can't move with this body!
What else could I do?
Body repairs take time.
And yours is a total wreck.
[Naoko] He suddenly exploded.
That's strange.
My design should have been perfect.
Huh?
Here's the likely cause.
This was in there instead of a battery.
-[Naoko] A can of pineapple?
-[Grandpa] This would cause a break down.
[Takashi]
I'm amazed he was functioning.
I'll go get a new battery.
[chuckles] Boy, what a pain.
But why a can of pineapple?
A case... A criminal case.
Someone must have done this on purpose.
Are you saying that someone tried to--
Yes! This is a murder mystery!
Is it murder if the victim is a robot?
Even if it is,
this is technically an attempted murder.
-[snickers]
-What is it?
I have an idea who the culprit is.
Huh?
The culprit is you, Takashi Yamada!
[shrieks]
Me?
When the teacher exploded, you shouted,
"Yay! There's no test!" Didn't you?
Right. You didn't want to take the test.
It wasn't me!
Come clean and confess!
Hold on a minute.
What?
Today's test was a pop quiz.
But the can of pineapple
was planted before the test was announced.
Oh, um...
Takashi Yamada wouldn't have a motive
unless he knew about the test.
That is, uh...
quite a keen observation, Watson.
Who's Watson?
Thank you, Keisuke Saito.
I was not defending you.
I was simply stating the facts.
So the question is:
Takashi Yamada, how did you find out
there would be a test?
I didn't know!
First of all, when did Mr. R3
change his battery?
Maybe we should start
by looking into that.
Yeah, that's the real issue.
Why, yes, Watson has a point there.
Like I said, who's Watson?
Mr. R3, when did you change your battery?
This morning.
As I was heading to class,
I noticed my battery was running low,
so I asked Babu Lisa
to bring me a new one.
Babu Lisa?
Huh?
[Naoko] Babu?
[snickers] I have an idea
who the culprit is.
I am not the culprit!
May I take that as a confession?
How is that a confession?
Mr. R3 asked me to get a battery,
so I went and got one.
Come to think of it,
the battery box was already torn open.
That seems suspicious.
And you didn't open it yourself?
Why am I a suspect?
Ms. Babu Lisa, you said
you met Mr. R3 in the hallway,
and he asked you to get a battery.
That's right.
What was he holding at that time?
A bunch of paper.
The test sheets.
I guess.
So, that is when you found out
there was going to be a pop quiz.
After that, you went to get the battery.
-I didn't know about the stupid test!
-[thunder crashes]
You replaced his battery with a can
of pineapple to sabotage the test!
-I wouldn't do that!
-The circumstantial evidence is there!
Now come clean!
Hold on, let's not jump to conclusions.
Mr. R3, how long had the battery box
been in that room?
I brought it from home this morning.
Ah!
-Come to think of it...
-[shouting]
-[grunts, exclaims]
-[clatter]
KinPika ran into me...
near the school gate.
KinPika?
[gasps]
You crashed into Mr. R3 on purpose
and switched the battery with the can!
I wouldn't do such a thing.
Come to think of it...
[humming]
Good morning, KinPika.
Morning!
[Halley] KinPika was carrying a can.
What?
It was my dessert for lunch.
A can of what?
Pineapple.
So it was your can!
It's still in my locker!
[KinPika grunts]
See?
Huh?
[Mr. R3] Ah, my battery!
I don't get it.
[snickers] I have an idea who...
-Everyone knows who the culprit is now.
-Hold on, everyone.
This takes us back to where we started.
What do you mean?
At the time, KinPika didn't know
there was going to be a pop quiz.
Yeah!
Oh, wait.
-[shouting]
-[grunts, exclaims]
[clatters]
What is going on?
Watch where you're going.
I'm sorry.
[Mr. R3]
Oh! I must've taken the can by mistake.
[all] What?
So it wasn't a crime,
but rather, an accident.
[sighs]
-KinPika.
-Huh?
-What's wrong with your butt?
-Oh, this?
While I was walking to school,
my butt suddenly felt like it was burning.
[screams]
That's why I crashed into Mr. R3.
-Your butt? All of a sudden?
-Burning?
Why?
It's a mystery.
Come to think of it...
Ahh!
Gosh, what's this golf ball doing here?
[grunts]
[roars]
[screams]
-[shouts]
-[grunts, exclaims]
[clatters]
[Naoko] So...
Does that mean...
it was my fault?
Looks like it.
In other words...
Naoko, you're the real culprit.
Don't say "real culprit."
It wasn't a crime, but an accident, right?
-[girl] Still, it's your fault.
-[boy] Yep.
-[Mr. R3] Reflect upon what you've done.
-Yes, sir.
♪ Gau, Gau ♪
♪ I am Gauko ♪
♪ Here to protect the peace on Earth ♪
♪ Gau, Gau, Gau ♪
♪Take my fire of justice ♪
Subtitle translation by Krysta Uyekawa